Finally, I want to do another closer look at the methods and then and compose the following table shows
you which interfaces have support for these default methods.
So note that supply and predicate do not support either method only function and it's more specific
type unary operator support compose.
An only consumer uses the single abstract method in combination with these methods or other interfaces
use apply in other words, to compose and the and then methods do not get invoked without either apply
or accept for consumer being invoked as well.
Looking at this table, the default method and then the interfaces both function binary operator function
and unary operator.
The functionality of a single abstract method is appli and for the consumer interface, the functional
interface single abstract method is accept and with the default method, compose the interface as a
function and unary operator and for the functional interface single abstract method it's apply.
So let's create yet another class in a built in interfaces project.
We'll call this one and then examples.
To this case consists of the class and the examples of the main method, as you can see on screen,
and the code sets up a variable of type function as some as the lambda expression to the local variable
invokes the compose method on the variable and scrolling it down also invokes the and then method on
the variable and then invokes the apply method on the variable that's from this.
And there's the apple.
I had said in a video or in this section of the court when reviewing consumer, that the and dead method
needs to be self assigned or it won't get invoked.
The same is true for Composers'.
Well, these methods are lazy.
They will not actually get invoked until the corresponding single abstract method method is invoked.
But in addition, they could include Lezley if you do not reassign the result to an appropriate interface
variable first, if you're not immediately changing them.
Let's make a change here.
They basically just cannot sign the value back to the function variable executing the code now.
Gives us another step there, as you can see there, the same is also true for the and then MyFord.
So let's do that.
Basically, we just come to assign the result back to our function variable.
From this, we have the third step showing the output confirms that all lambda expressions were executed
and we comment that the apply method invocation on line thirty six.
Now we're doing this again.
You could say that by doing that, we've confirmed at the end that method and composed method do not
get invoked independently.
That's just undo that last change back to what we had before.
So let's put some more code to our main MyFord.
So here you see the current variable function returning the composed method, the and then method and
apply method in a single statement using different lambda expressions.
And if we run this, we should see the results and the output pane.
And there's the result.
So were you surprised at the lambda expressions previously passed to N10 and Kapos continue to be executed
here?
You could say looking at the output that you can add multiple and then and compose method expressions,
this is a reminder that if you're using a local variable and applying the lambda expression in multiple
instances and you don't want this behavior, you need to reinitialize the variable to its original state.
So now let's look at another interface that has the same default values via inheritance, the unary
operator which extends the function interface.
More code into our main method.
In this case, I'm using a unary operator with a compose and an invocation, chaining them to the applied
method, running the code can see the result at the bottom.
So as I stated, I'm was talking about this slide binary operator and boy function do not support the
composed method, but they do support and then.
So back to the code.
What I'm going to do now is spend some more code.
So that's the code.
This is showing examples of invoking and then for both of these interface types, namely by function
and binary operator, let's run this.
We could see the results in the apple.
Now let's use the method and then with the consumer interface again, remembering that the consumer's
single abstract method is except.
SEPTA imports.
So not hear them instead of chaining, I'm sitting at the end, then method result back to the consumer
local variable C from the card.
There's put.
So try to memorize this table, remembering which interfaces support and then and which support compose.
So go through them again briefly to folk method and then the interface is a function, binary operator,
function and unary operator and the functional interface signal abstract method is apply and the default
method.
And then for the interface consumer, the functionality of high single abstract method is except for
the default method, compose interfaces, function and unary operator.
The single abstract method for the functional interface is apply.
Try and memorize this remembering which interfaces support and then in which support compose.
Remember that neither method is invoked until the single abstract method is invoked.
Now, if you're not changing these methods to that single abstract method invocation, then you need
to assign the result of the lazy invocations of and then or compose to the interface variable which
will eventually invoke the single abstract method, apply or accept for consumer.
I've shown you that you can continue to change multiple and then and compose methods even after the
first invocation of the apply or accept method.
And the result is cumulative operations or irrationality in the video here.
Next, you'll be presented with a couple of quick questions on these topics.
So good luck and then I'll see you in the following section.
We're going to be discussing Java Stream API, which I think is a lot of fun.
So let's go.